EN - Attend Bon Odori to understand between religion and culture, S'gor Sultan tells minister
https://www.sinardaily.my/article/175199/malaysia/national/attend-bon-odori-to-understand-between-religion-and-culture-sgor-sultan-tells-minister

SHAH ALAM - Selangor’s Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah has asked religious affairs minister Idris Ahmad to attend the Bon Odori festival in Shah Alam to “understand the difference between religion and culture”.

In a Facebook post today, Sultan Sharafuddin said he did not want the minister to use the Islamic Development Department (Jakim) to make “confusing and inaccurate statements which could negatively affect the image and reputation of the department”.

The Sultan further hoped that the people of Selangor of all backgrounds would continue to live in harmony.

This comes after Idris told Muslims not to take part in the Japanese community’s annual Bon Odori festival, stating that the celebration is “influenced by elements of other religions”.

The celebration is organised by the Japanese community in Malaysia, and it is being held after a two-year hiatus. It will be held in Shah Alam on July 16 and in Penang on July 30.

The Sultan further said the cultural festival has been held in the country for decades and is held to encouraged unity between Malaysians and the Japanese community here.

He said the festival became popular after more Japanese companies invested in the country, including in Selangor.

“His Highness had attended the festival accompanied by the Japanese ambassador to Malaysia in 2016, and in his observation, the Bon Odori festival does not involve religious or ritualistic (syirik) performances that could distort the beliefs of those present,” the statement read.

He reiterated that the Selangor Islamic department and the Shah Alam City Council had been ordered to attend the festival "to get a clear picture" and ensure that it did not go against Islam.

He further said cultural forms practised worldwide were linked to religion but over the years it shed religious elements.

He does not want any quarters, especially politicians, to touch on religious sensitivities for personal and political gain.