EN - Zuraida appointed PBM’s president-designate
https://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2022/06/09/zuraida-appointed-pbms-president-designate

KUALA LUMPUR: Parti Bangsa Malaysia (PBM) has decided to appoint Datuk Zuraida Kamaruddin as its “president-designate”.

In making the announcement, PBM president Larry Sng said the party’s political bureau as well as its supreme council have agreed to the decision.

ALSO READ: Zuraida quits Bersatu to join PBM

“On the request from the grassroots of Parti Bangsa Malaysia, the political bureau and supreme council have discussed and unanimously decided to elevate YB Datuk Hajah Zuraida Kamaruddin as the president-designate to drive the development and progress of the party in the future,” he told reporters at a press conference on Thursday (June 9).

On May 26, the Ampang MP quit Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (Bersatu) to join PBM.

Sng said the Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister had sent in her application for membership on the same day.

He added that her membership came into effect on Thursday.


STARPICKS 
Beach sanctuary amidst the east coast buzz
Zuraida, who was also present, said she will ensure that PBM becomes a relevant party.

On the leadership transition, Sng said it would take time and preparations are being made for the party's annual general meeting in August.

“That process will take place (which includes) amending the party’s constitution. After the committee has decided on the best formula, we will make the announcement to the public,” he said.

However, Sng added that in his absence, Zuraida will take the lead in party matters.

“PBM has already given the mandate to the president-designate to lead delegations to meet other party leaders in terms of admission into any particular coalition,” he said.

"I think we have already decided that the president-designate, myself and the secretary-general will be part of this committee which will be led by (Zuraida),” he added.

Sng, who is also Julau MP, said PBM is open for membership, and is not closing its doors to any particular group.

Sng was formerly with Parti Keadilan Rakyat, where he served as its Sarawak chief until he left the party in February last year.

“During the meeting we had earlier, we decided that should any particular leader decide to join us, we shouldn’t make it too difficult. That is the position of PBM,” he said.

On seat allocations, Sng said an announcement would be made closer to the 15th General Election.

PBM also expressed its backing for Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob’s administration.