EN - Attend Bon Odori festival and expand your knowledge, S’gor Ruler rebukes Idris Ahmad
https://focusmalaysia.my/attend-bon-odori-festival-and-expand-your-knowledge-sgor-ruler-rebukes-idris-ahmad/

SELANGOR Ruler Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah today urged Islamic Affairs Minister Idris Ahmad to attend the Bon Odori festival scheduled for July 16, at the Kompleks Sukan Negara in Shah Alam.

“This may help Idris understand the difference between religion and culture. Plus, I don’t want him to misuse Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (JAKIM) to make confusing and misleading statements that can tarnish the agency’s image.

“And I hope the multiracial state of Selangor will continue to live harmoniously with each other by practising tolerance,” His Majesty said in a statement posted on the Selangor Royal Office Facebook page.



Two days ago, Bernama reported Idris as reminding Muslims to stay away from the Japanese summer festival, alleging that the celebration is “influenced by elements of other religions”.

The PAS leader also said that a study conducted by conducted by JAKIM had confirmed the matter.

“Therefore, we are advising the Muslims not to participate in the festival or any other programmes that are against their faith and creed,” he was reported as saying.

However, Sultan Sharafuddin stepped in yesterday and decreed for the festival to continue as planned and urged Selangor Islamic Religious Department (Jais) not to prevent anyone from attending it.



Touching on the matter, Sultan Sharafuddin said that politicians must never misuse religious sensitivities just to gain popularity for their vested interests.

 

His Majesty added that one should not paint a negative picture over something without doing in depth study on the matter.

“Be fair when making public statements, especially when it involves racial harmony,” the Ruler quipped.



Learn the difference between religion and culture

On the Bon Odori festival, Sultan Sharafuddin said he himself had attended it in 2016, accompanied by the Japanese ambassador to Malaysia.

Based on his observation, His Majesty found nothing heretic in it that can lead Muslims to go astray.



“The festival has been celebrated in Malaysia for decades. In Selangor, it is held to strengthen ties between Malaysians and the Japanese expatriates living here.

“As for the event itself, it is a cultural festival where it features Japanese dance, music, tanglong and food, including local delicacies.

“Plus, the festival is also a place where friends and families meet after being apart for a long time,” Sultan Sharaffudin mentioned.

His Majesty remarked: “Every festival in the world has elements of religion in the beginning. However, as time passes, such cultural events no longer perpetuate the religious aspects of it.”

PAS MP disagrees with Selangor Ruler

On related matter, PAS MP Ahmad Fadhli Shari appeared to disagree with the Ruler’s views and took to Facebook to defend religious scholars.

(Muftis are respected for their knowledge in religion. They issue edicts based on views given by their respective state fatwa committees. They need not be told to go here and there to check whether something is permissible or not. Every state has its own religious committee, where it consists of those learned in the religion) – June 9, 2022
